I welcome many people here who have not attended a program of Sri Mataji Nirmala Devi.
By good fortune, we are holding a seminar here this weekend
and we had the idea to open it out to a wider public
to share with you the remarkable discovery which is Sahaja Yoga.
Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi is an absolutely unique figure in this world
and people have come from many European countries to join us this weekend.
I'm going to ask Gregoire de Kalbermatten,
who is a Swiss national,
who has written a book on the subject of Sri Mataji's advent,
to make a presentation before Shri Mataji arrives to give you some orientation about
and why it is that this is such a unique opportunity for all of us
at this juncture in our history, in the national history,
in the international history, in the very evolution of our species.
You may hear some big words this evening,
but I hope that you are people of a calibre to seek the reality, the truth, in big words
and not to be satisfied with superficial answers to sublime questions.
We have been having an intensely joyful seminar.
We want to share that joy with you.
There is a very specific way by which that joy can be shared by everyone.
It's the birthright of everyone. It's nothing especially abnormal.
Everyone has the potential within them to achieve what has been promised.
And we hope very much that later on you will make a point of finding out for yourself,
individually, how much potential you have to transform into the promised state,
which is very blissful, very peaceful and very nourishing,
which we call Self-realisation.
After the programme, those who are interested to do so
may like to leave their name and address with us in the foyer
so that we can be in touch with you about other programmes.
Programmes are held regularly in London and in many other cities in this country.
And we look forward to meeting you and getting to know you.
So without further ado, I'll ask Gregoire to speak to you
and to introduce Shri Mataji who will be here in a few minutes. Thank you.
All right, it's working.
Again, good evening to everybody and most welcome.
It's a very nice surroundings, we had a very jolly weekend here.
And we thank you for coming this evening.
Now, introducing Sahaja Yoga or Shri Mataji is always a privilege,
although it's not a very easy topic.
The reason it is not an easy topic is that the subject matter
is slightly beyond the borders of our wildest dreams.
And while presenting it, we have to be very careful not to look
like somebody who would be naive to the point of idiocity.
Is it an English word, idiocity?
Okay.
Because what we are talking about is self-realisation.
If any of us know what self-realisation is about,
then we know it's a very big thing.
It is something that very few saints and sages of the olden days
used to achieve after lives of tremendous labours and penances
dedicated to that very purpose,
which obviously is not the situation in which I am finding myself.
I am an international civil servant, I have a wife, three children and so on.
So that keeps me pretty busy.
So, self-realisation while living in the world, this sounds like utopia.
I have met Shri Mataji about 10 years ago,
slightly more I suppose now,
and that is enough for me to know it's not utopia, it's reality.
Now, I have no pretension to communicate this very truth to you,
because if I have accepted it, it is on the basis of my own experience
and not because anybody would tell me so.
Actually the people who told me so,
I told them that they were, you know, kidding themselves.
And I would expect from you the same kind of healthy scepticism.
I.e. you shouldn't believe me of course.
Somebody who believes people in this world today is somebody who is in for troubles,
because especially in the field of spirituality,
you have all kinds of crazy shows going on in town.
Unfortunately these shows are sometimes very successful.
So that for someone who is genuine but confused,
which seems to be the characteristic of many seekers,
certainly, I mean I would certainly describe myself as being confused
when I think about the state I was before I met Shri Mataji.
It's very difficult to know who is genuine and who is not,
who delivers the goods and who doesn't,
and who is just a kind of illusion makers.
So the way to go about this riddle is just to submit to you that
whatever may be said on Sahaja Yoga is for you an hypothesis.
And this is probably what Shri Mataji will tell you also in a few minutes.
Now you know that for an hypothesis to be considered as a law,
it has to fulfill two requirements,
it has to be communicable and verifiable under certain conditions.
So the hypothesis of Sahaja Yoga which is going to be laid down or presented for you,
is going to be verified for those who saw desire,
not for the others of course,
by a session of meditation at the end of the program of Shri Mataji,
in which Shri Mataji will again show her absolutely amazing capacity
to play this catalytical role in granting people their self-realization.
So if you came here to listen to a lecture,
you are like someone who came and thought he had five dollars in his pocket,
but it's not five, it's five thousand dollars.
Because really what you can get this evening is much more than analytical knowledge,
which is communicated by means of words.
So this is a kind of introduction to the hypothesis.
And I assure you that the only thing it takes to verify what is actually going on,
is a certain intellectual honesty, that's all, a certain genuineness.
And of course a desire to know what's going on,
not about Sahaja Yoga of course, but what's going on about our own life,
about the way to fulfill it.
Now the hypothesis is very simple, this is the framework of the hypothesis,
and what we say is this,
you have the sacrum bone, which is more or less at the bottom of your spine,
an energy which could be called in our tradition as
the residual consciousness of the Holy Spirit in man.
This energy is called Kundalini in Sanskrit.
Now what we call Self-realization,
that has to be defined, is the following process.
It's the process of this energy going up within the spine,
crossing this famous point known as the third eye in various esoteric traditions,
going through this beautiful flower here,
which Lord Buddha described as the thousand petaled lotus,
and oozing out of the top of the skull.
Now when this takes place, what does it mean, what are the implications?
I think Shri Mataji is already coming.
What are the implications of this process?
First of all you can register the process in, I would say, essentially two ways.
When the energy crosses this center, the Agnya chakra,
one enters into a state which is a state of silence.
Now we all know we'd rather think a lot and it's not easy to stop thinking,
even if we do so, I mean if we wish to do so.
This state of silence announces the quality of what Lord Jesus Christ has described as the
kingdom of God, because when one can penetrate farther into this silence,
one undoubtedly discovers a new quality of being, and I would like to come back on this.
Now once the Kundalini is just a couple of centimeters upwards and oozes out of the head,
then what happens?
There again what happens has been referred to in very ancient texts,
what actually happens is one feels the manifestation of something which is a cool breeze,
and this is a cool breeze which was called as Pneuma Onus by the Greek Fathers of the Church.
It was referred to also in the Bible as this mighty wind which erupted in the house
where the apostles were gathered for Pentecost.
There are many references in various cultures to this phenomenon that we call vibrations.
What actually happens is that our central nervous system, which means this physical system by which
we feel sensations, becomes aware of a subtle energy which was always existing before,
but which we could not perceive. It's like you have let's say a radio here,
I mean if the radio is not switched on it cannot pick up all the waves and the music which is in
the room in the same way. Self-realization allows our central nervous system to pick on those waves,
to feel these vibrations which are a spiritual energy. In other words, this is the meeting point
of matter and spirit because with the material structure one becomes aware of spirit, and this
is a breakthrough into the fourth dimension. These vibrations are the category of perception that Kant
was requiring in order to know the things in themselves, in order to know reality,
and it is because at that time he said that we don't have this new or this other category
of perception to know metaphysical realities, metaphysics, that is what is beyond physics.
That is why we should just limit ourselves to rationality and from there on the whole
demach, the whole direction of the western seekers went into basically this finite world
and no more this world which was keeping people like Plato and Socrates busy,
the world of the things in themselves, of reality. Now this is important to know because this
breakthrough in our category of perception has been solved by so many seekers that people who
know that background, would it be only intellectually, know that one thing has to happen
in order to know reality, is that we have to have a new means and this is how you'll better
understand the importance of these vibrations and the importance of what can be done with them.
This is such a rich and vast topic that I simply would not like to enter into it now.
Now going back to what I said a few minutes ago, this quality of silence one discovers at the level
of the Agnya chakra is the space of reality between two thought movements. Now the action
of this energy which we have called Kundalini pushes the thoughts on the side and then you
enter in your own realm. What actually happened is this, is that once that the Kundalini is at the
top of the head there is a secret link between the head and the heart and the heart is the seat
of the self, the spirit, the Atma in Sanskrit. So through this link in your consciousness,
in your brain you start imbibing Atma consciousness, that means you start being
aware conscious of those qualities which are the qualities of the self which are called Sat-Chit-Ananda
meaning truth consciousness and bliss.
So this is the hypothesis
as shortly as I could [say].
This is true Shri Mataji.
As I mentioned
the very reassuring thing about Sahaja Yoga is that nobody is ever taught to believe in anything that
is not object of experience and perception.
I also mentioned that for those who saw desire the verification of the hypothesis can take place
at the end of this program. Now I should perhaps before ending tell you why it is so.
Why it is that we who are very, I should say normal people, why is it that we should be in
a position to know this experience? What have we done to deserve it? I mean if I ask this question
for myself I'm a bit puzzled because I certainly did not at any point have the
got the feeling that I had done anything to deserve that.
So it came as such a surprise to me that I should get my realization that really for
quite some time I would not quite believe that it is so. And I found out later on that many people
have the same difficulty to relate to something which is so incredibly beyond our wildest dream
that it's just too good to be true. You know where is the catch? I mean it's not possible.
Well it is. And Shri Mataji is as a very which I welcome here, very gracious of you to have come and
we thank you so much. We certainly are very grateful to you for coming Shri Mataji.
Shri Mataji is a very poetical simple image which in my view is perfect for the world.
Which in my view is perfect because it carries the strength of simplicity and it says it all.
Shri Mataji says that well if you have a tree which starts producing flowers in the middle of
winter under snow and storm this is a miracle. And that miracle where those great souls of the past
which received their realization at a point where the whole evolutionary process was not quite
mature for this. Therefore they had to struggle in an incredible way. And this is what you learn
when you study the lives of such great people. Now if this same tree is blossoming in spring it's
not a miracle. It's nature's ways and rhythm. It is the dance of evolution. It is the moment that
should happen. And so Shri Mataji says we now have entered the time where this process of triggering
en masse self-realization has come. And if you study arts, literature, anything, any parameter
of modern civilization you know that there is a tremendous expectation for this kind of
breakthrough. And this is pretty obvious that today Englishmen for instance are not motivated
by many things certainly not by competing with Japanese in order to make gadgets. I mean the
economic indicators prove that they don't devote much energy to these things. So what do they care about?
Cricket maybe but other things too. And actually I would submit that it is probably an evolutionary
progress to accept that GNP should decrease because one does not bother about it. But then
what should we devote our attention to? And many people in this country as in any so-called
industrial countries are trying to devote more energy to the pursuit of this inner truth.
The only trouble is the setup that I've described before is that there is such a big show in town
that people don't go into the right shop because first of all they assume it has to be found in a
shop where you can buy it and this is the first mistake. So here you can't buy because it's too
expensive. It's so expensive that it can only be given. Shri Mataji says that realization is
as important as breathing. If you would have to puncture your bank account in order to have
the right to breathe you would be dead long time back. And this it is the same thing.
So it happens now because now the time has come and it happens for another reason. And this
other reason if I may say so is sitting before you.
Now speaking to I would say a few people who have never had exposure to Sahaja Yoga,
I should certainly keep a kind of sobriety while introducing Shri Mataji which is difficult
because her achievements are so extraordinary that they are difficult to express in English
which is a language appreciating understatements.
It's very difficult to understate Shri Mataji. I mean we are condemned to understate her anyway
but how to give some or render some justice to her labor, the work she has been doing in this
country and I should say in the whole of Western Europe not to mention Australia and of course
India. What I know is that she's a totally selfless, totally genuine person. Not only
she didn't ever take any penny, I should blush for saying such a nonsense from anybody,
but the first lot of her followers in London were of such a kind of economically derelict
soul that she had to pay for the rent of the flat for some time. So this is one of the oddities of
Sahaja Yoga and there are many others that you will discover in your time. Shri Mataji
despite a tremendous power that we would not be able to face if that power would not be just
love, despite siddhis, despite qualities that in my humble view are to be found in nobody on this
earth and I have seen a lot of so-called spiritual people before I met Shri Mataji. Despite all this
she's extremely human, I mean much more than me, I'm quite surprised about that.
There is a word in Sanskrit for this and this word is called Mahamaya and Mahamaya means the
great illusion. So you have the privilege to sit this evening in front of
a very very great illusion and this is the illusion that you're in front of a human being.
It's a nice illusion though because if you would realize that it is not so,
you may run away and this is not the purpose of the evening.
So I suppose that I should end this few words by means of introduction.
Thanking you very much for having come all the way from wherever you came and if Sahaja Yoga
is full of joy, is full of humor, it's also a sacred reality.
It is the sacred reality of our innermost divine being
which opens itself if we in all humility and sincerity so wish. Shri Mataji, I am again
in the name of everybody most graceful that you should grace this evening and it is my
humblest prayer that everybody who has come should experience their Self-realization and what is even
I should say what is even as important as that should understand what great great gift
that evening is for them. Thank you very much.
It's beautiful flowers.
I bow to all the seekers of truth.
We had no intentions of having any public programs in England but somehow Mr. Gavin
Brown, hopes against hopes, and they spent lot of money for this program and I only feel
sorry that every time they have a public program we get very few people and even if you get
Last time we had about three hundred people who were new. They got, some of them did touch
realization. They looked very serious but nothing inside. We lost most of them because
you see we have become used to our mental capacity to enact something and not to be
the reality. It's a speciality of mental people that they talk too much, they say too
much, have nothing with them. It's very shocking sometimes when you see how people
say things about reality. I watch sometimes television, I see people on the television
and I feel they are somewhere near reality, they are talking about reality. They understand
that there's something missing in their lives and they are looking for it but when
it comes to actualization and to achieving what you have, whatever is your own, they
become absolutely mundane, frivolous, very surprising. I can't understand why it should
happen. Now supposing you say, as Gregoire has been giving Me certificates, great certificates
he has given and also he's a diplomat so diplomatically he was trying to please all
of you so that you take to Sahaja Yoga because he doesn't want you to commit the same mistakes
that most of them have committed. But despite all that let us face ourselves clearly. Newcomers
are absolutely a minority here so I'm talking also to Sahaja Yogis. Let us face ourselves
fully. Are we ourselves? We've got everything supposing, we say, All right, we have seen
the power of political achievement, of economic achievements, of other achievements which
we call emotional achievements. But have we really faced ourselves? Have we seen ourselves?
What is our quality of life? I asked an Englishman, I said, What is the quality of an Englishman?
He said, It depends on how many times he goes for a sea resort. Can you imagine? What? Sea
resort. How many years back did you start going to the sea resort? I don't think we
never heard about it in India. It's about twenty-five years back, somebody's stupid
fellow must be, or somebody very clever maybe, put this idea that we all should go to the
sea resort because we must get our skin full of cancer. So the quality of a person doesn't
depend on a mental acceptance of something that looks new. And that's what is happening
to all of us is, anything new that comes, we accept it and we think we have equality.
If a lady goes supposing to us at a sea resort, because I meet the other kind also who are
not seekers at all, she'll come and tell and say, Now see what tan I have got. I mean,
it's so superficial, it's so frivolous, it's so nonsensical. I mean, is this the
value of your life? You have come out of amoeba stage to this stage and what are you doing
about yourself, making it tan? That sometimes really makes me feel very disappointed. And
this is such a common topic all over. What are we? We are human beings. We have come
out of amoeba to other stage and other stage in thousands of years. Today we are human
beings, made to achieve something great. Nature has worked on us relentlessly, so beautifully,
so delicately, so lovingly, for what? And when we just become mental, according to Indian
philosophers, a mental person is nothing but a stupid fellow. Egoistical person he becomes
and he becomes nothing but a stupid fellow. Because anything that comes of the mental
expression. Today I was only watching about the modern art. Modern art is all right if
you know how to become super modern, that is a realized soul. But this modern art was
described by a gentleman and then ultimately he got into the real mood of saying something
that is the truth. He said that this all expression shows that we were barbaric and
now we have become worse than barbaric. So the whole expression of our life is something
that we have done out of our mental thing, we are so much in imbalance. Now the main
thing one has to understand that you are made a human being by the kindness, the grace of
the nature of God Almighty, as I call it. Not by you, not by mental thought. You have
a special value, you have a very, very special value in the eyes of the nature, in the working
of the evolutionary process. Have we got any concept as to what is expected out of
us? Are we to waste our life into these frivolous, stupid things, doing everything very simply
seriously though? They're very serious about all stupidity, especially then they
talk for a greater stupidity they are more serious. They think without that there won't
be any impression on people. But the main thing is we have missed the point. The point
is you have to be the Spirit. All these doings are to be the Spirit. It's not talking,
it's not your mental projections, all your new ideas coming up and going up, it's not
that. It is you have to be the Spirit. Face it up. This you cannot purchase in the market,
you cannot. You cannot put in any effort. Now you are that, just to become that. That's
what your quality is. That's what I see you as. Or anybody who is a realized soul.
But what do you see yourself as, is the main point. That's why there cannot be much report.
Anything new that is brought to you, oh it's nice. How, how do you know?
Traditions we have put on one side, because tradition means all conditioning,
all wrong things, tradition we don't want, all right. So now what are you clinging to?
At least tradition had one safe point. That trial and error you have found out something sensible.
Now you put tradition all nonsense. Why? Because you cannot take out the good out of that tradition.
So now you are going to the other side saying, all right, no tradition, we love this new style.
We don't want to be covered by any tradition. Like people might say, what is in a painting of say,
of say, Marlowe, whom I like very much, say, what is so great? We can do some drip painting.
They have drip painting, I don't know what sort of paintings they have these days.
Why should we? You can't do even one painting like that.
You can't even reproduce. You cannot think of such a painting, face it. Modern mind is incapable
of conceiving that. Accept it. You have gone down in quality. Why? Because of mental movement.
It's such a limited movement, but those people believed in something higher, higher, higher
ideals. They thought of God, they thought of perfecting themselves, not putting the chaos in
your heart outside, no, perfecting, resting in that, believing in that, in that peaceful
atmosphere they created something that you cannot produce. Only thing what you can do?
I don't like it. Like in my house, I was screen made in Saranpur long time back, it's beautifully
done, it has got beautiful honeycomb work which no one can do. Found some people came
to see, I don't like it. I said, can you make even three inches of that? That's the only
thing you can do is to say, I don't like it, finished. Can you do three inches? Can you?
You can't. Accept this fact. Once you accept this fact, I'm sure the humility that is needed
will come into you. Humility is lacking. Seekers must have humility, otherwise they will go
to people who will pamper their egos and they will be drifted into nonsensical till their
money is finished, till they become absolutely lunatics or epileptics, they will just continue
and will finish off. But to be sensible, to be sane, one has to understand that our worth
is much more than this. Like a BBC fellow comes and tells Me, I mean he thinks, he's
praising you, I don't know what, whatever you may call it, that an Anglo-Saxon brain
cannot understand anything spiritual for which you don't have to pay. I really tell you
that he said it to Me. And I refused to go on that BBC because I said, first of all,
your Anglo-Saxon brain must be all right. Is it a special brain you have made, Anglo-Saxon
brains, are they specially made by God? When you say you are Anglo-Saxon brain you have
absolutely put down your value, down. And when you say it's a human brain, then you
are great because you become one of that great world. There's no global sense, we
don't have a global sense at all within ourselves. Whatever we have is so localized
and insular understanding, so insular that we just say, I don't like it, I don't
want it. Who is this I, is only possible when we come to some humility.
With all respect to England, because England to Me is very great and it's the heart of
the universe. And when I say this in the European countries they get rather upset, Mother, what?
England is the heart, that's too much, Mother, we can't digest this. It is the
heart, whatever you like it or not. It is the heart, no doubt. But what a heart, can't
break it, you know, cannot make it expand. This is the sad part of English, is, it's
the heart, is a very important organ of the universe. But the cells that exist here, who
are supposed to circulate in the whole world, who have to achieve so many things as the
cells of the heart achieve by pumping out new refreshed blood, is expected to have beautiful
heart, an English mark, a heart that is to be cherished, to be enjoyed and appreciated.
Where are they? With all this expenditure on these people here, previously I used to
do it in England, but I gave up, exhausted all my bank and how many disciples I get are
seven for four years. I said, give up these people, good for nothing, useless. All the
money they spend, and what do you find, what's the quality, how many come up and how many
work it out, how many care for their Self-realization? For Me to say that I work very hard, I don't
think I work at all, I don't work. I do not work, it emits, it's there. But it's
a waste, it's a waste land. How are we going to sow the seed in the waste land? How
are we going to work it out? Especially London seems to be a rock, rock of Gibraltar has
come in London, I think. For this place, Wimbledon, you'll be surprised, we are very
fond of tennis, so both of us used to come. And our driver would say, we must go one hour
earlier. Why? You just can't get in there. And we used to come one hour earlier to get
into the lanes of this Wimbledon to go and see the tennis. And the same Wimbledon has
twenty people, new people over here. I really wanted to go back, because I felt what sort
of a quality is this that I'm wasting my time with. We tried everything, diplomatic
relationship, food we invited them, gave them food, tea, Indian tea, all kinds of things
we tried, that a mother should try her level best. You don't understand this. Of course
the Indians who are here are all uprooted people, I don't call them Indians at all,
most of them. They are just uprooted people. They don't understand the value of their
life, no, most of them. Of course there are some sensible people also, no doubt, a very
few. So now what are we to do, supposing there is something great that has to happen to this
world, and that you are the ones who have to be blessed. You can you believe it? I've
been here for twelve years now, this will be the twelfth year. But there's a guru who
wants a Rolls Royce, he's already got fifty-eight, he wants a fifty-ninth. There are sixty thousand
people here who are buying a Rolls Royce for that person. What happens to your brains,
I can't understand. Is that the Spirit? Is that what you are seeking? Understatement
I understand, but undervaluing I don't understand. No value for your own being, not for your
own evolution and for your own personality. I tell you, I've done everything under the
sun in this country. In India I've hardly worked for two years, and we have thousands
and thousands of people who are Sahaja Yogis today. Our country is going to change very
fast, I know that. It will work out even in so many other countries. But England, William
Blake, I don't know, he dreamt so great about England because he knew the quality
of England, that Jerusalem. Do you think, you still hope what he said? You have such
an advantage of your language, you have such an advantage that you can read about so many
things. Most of the books of philosophy are translated into your language. You are specially
being blessed by so much of knowledge, despite that. Why, why people are so much unaware
of their worth, of their deserving capacity. What do they deserve? Let's see. Is the
expectation of the disasters that are going to come, or horrible things that are going
to happen in this world, all these things, do we deserve or do we deserve some sort of
a great hope for ourselves? And everything is within you, you can see that, it's all
there, it's your own. Why shouldn't you have it? I mean, we have tried everything
to push you down to that point, every way, every method. As in Sanskrit they say,
‘Kāma, Dama, Daṇḍa, Bheda, Nīti’, everything, five things we have tried, to work it out. So now only
another thing is to push people with piston up there and keep them waiting. That also
perhaps you've done, isn't it? The whole world is looking at you, remember that.
Not big talking, not big saying, but the big thing happening within you, is actualization
of that great thing, which is so simple, so beautiful. It takes hardly anything for you
to become your Spirit, but to maintain it, to respect it and to be there. I don't know
what sort of a special glue we should have, they just don't stick on. They meet Me on
the shop, Mother, I said, how? Oh, you don't know, I came to it twelve years back, you
gave Me realization, all right, now what are you doing about it? Mother, I lost it, you
know, really. It's very common, very common phenomenon. So those who are here today, twenty
people, I hope are special, and they consider this experience as something special, and
establish themselves as great saints, knowing everything about their own powers.
It all has to be free, you cannot pay for it.
I'm really frustrated, I must say. I was going away this time to India, I would have been there,
but as you say, one is more concerned about the lost lambs. India is very easy, so I've
stuck back. I hope you are not going to disappoint Me, those who have come for the first time,
please, Gregoire has tried his tricks, everybody tries, but I don't know how to make people
stick. A surprising, in the West people have developed the best quality glues, we cannot
develop such in India, or any developing countries, don't have glues, but as far as they are
concerned they cannot stick on to anything whatsoever. They cannot stick on to their
wives, they cannot stick on to their husbands, they cannot stick on to their houses, they
cannot stick on to anything whatsoever. And whatever has to grow has to stick on somewhere.
If you have to make a well, then you find some water, then you dig it down, then you dig one,
then another, then another, then go about. That's not the way.
There has to be that breaking into the depth that you are, there has to be that happening,
where you break into your own depth, your own quality, your own wealth, but that time
you don't give, you don't give to yourself, you have no time for yourself, you have time
for all kinds of nonsensical things, but no time for yourself to see what beauty lies,
what glory lies behind this body, above this mind, and below these emotions.
I do not know any other method is possible now. I must say I give up, I've tried everything.
And as you have heard about Sahaja Yoga, it's a fact, there's no doubt about it,
there's nothing to lose, you are the Spirit, you have to become the Spirit.
It must relate to the traditional expression of your evolution. It cannot cut out all the saints,
all the great prophets, all the great religious leaders, it cannot cut out, but it integrates
all the essences of these great advents who came on this earth to guide us. It does not cut out
anywhere, and that's what is Sahaja Yoga. Sahaja, as you know, was spontaneous. Now,
spontaneous can be quite misrepresented if you use through your brains. Spontaneous means
it's a living process that should happen to all of you, and don't miss the point.
You have to spend at least a month to see the light that you have got
is to be carried much deeper into you. You are deep, you are great,
but if you have to find the pearls that are hidden, you have to go deep down.
It's very simple because the more you go deeper into yourself, the more you enjoy,
the more you become a wholesome personality, a greater personality, a personality that sees
everything on a universal level and understand everything that is global.
I'm sorry today I am not in My real, proper mood, I should say,
because I know how much these people have done. They have advertised, they have gone round,
they have put up advertisements everywhere, put up so much money, you know, that what
Standard Times or what, what was this, oh God, and that Times, also Times take so much
money out of your pockets. Just think of it. They are like gurus, you see.
All that to spend and what do you get out of it, one feels so sad, it's very sad.
Of course America is so much worse that relatively you don't feel that sad when you think of America.
But after describing all the American art today, the gentleman came to the conclusion
and he said that after seeing all this art one reaches a conclusion to say that they
were barbarians and now they have become worst barbarians. Oh God, I said, what am I to do
with these Americans now? But to Me you are all My children, you are all Mine. I cannot
allow you to be drifted away. Till the last I'll try to work out. I know I feel sometimes
very desperate and sad. English have very much changed now. They are so much influenced
by the French. Now the French are better but they are influenced by the old French and
the old Americans, not the new ones. New ones are very alert. So all the old ideas of these
nonsensical writers are lingering now in England, deposited like in a case of angina in the
heart, you see, when there is hardening of the arteries, all the bad blood stagnates
like that, it's happening, I feel. They have given up these ideas, they have rid of it,
they don't want to have it. We are still continuing with them.
Something respectable for ourselves, that's what I feel. Today being most of them, Sahaja
Yogi is here, I'm sure you'll all get your realization in no time, I'm sure of that.
But that's not sufficient. Out of the three hundred we got in Hampstead, with all the
work these people did, advertising, this, that, whatever was possible, five people,
some or other, stuck on, and only three I think with a great glue came down. That should
not happen again. So specially for the new people I have to tell you that this is something
so important that has come to be emboldened. All these tennis players, I've seen them
coming and going. One comes this year, next year he goes away, somebody is today a top
seat, then he goes down, not in Sahaja Yoga. You ascend and ascend and ascend and ascend,
eternally. It's a very different style of tennis. It's a real plague. It's no professionals
are needed, you become such tremendous players, such a game you develop. And that's what
is there for you just to jump into it and to understand the swimming. And I'm sure
it will work out. I hope all those who have come for the first time will not treat themselves
frivolously, but will stand up to it and give us some encouragement to work out more in
England. Otherwise maybe tomorrow all the Sahaja Yogis from here may come to India with
their, what do you say, stock, what, stock, lock, lock, stock and barrel, lock, stock
and barrel, of course without the barrels.
Let's see now how it works out. There's nothing serious about it. You have to be
very pleasantly placed towards yourself. This is one thing you should know. A person who
is godly is never serious inside. He's playing the game. So in that playful mood of a Maldan,
let us see what happens. May God bless you.
Any questions? I'll have some water.
Thank you.
No questions? That seems to be good. You are free to ask questions. If you have to achieve
complete freedom, your freedom is to be respected. Your freedom has to be respected.
Yes?
I'm a Christian and I do the meditation. So I'm welcome to put it out.
He's a Christian, he does meditation and he wonders whether he's welcome to our yoga.
Very much. But if you are a Christian, please be seated, please be seated.
Christian is all right, any religion is all right, it's all great, but it has talked of the future.
Christ has said, I will send you a comforter, counselor and a redeemer. Why don't the Christians
look for someone like that? Christ is gone now, he's not here. Why don't they look out for
a Holy Ghost?
He himself has said it. Mohammed Sahib has said that during the time of resurrection
your hands will speak. What about the Muslims? Why don't they look out for the resurrection?
Third is Guru Nanaka, Kabira. Nanaka was so great that he combined all the realized souls
who were poets and made a big beautiful grands-aub. What are the Sikhs doing? They are just reading it, reading it.
He says, without knowing yourself you will be in illusion. He said very clearly. Then
should we not look for that? But what happens, I tell you, what's the mistake is, once a
religion is organized it neutralizes all your ascent. Organized. I also took My birth in
the Christian religion, so-called I would say, specially that too Protestant for particular
reasons. I could have taken birth anywhere else but now. And there is no talk of ascent,
no talk of second birth. Artificially somebody puts his hand on your head, now you are a
Christian. I don't know how you become. Same about Hindus, same about every one of them,
they are leading an artificial religion. It's a garb. Reality is within. Whatever these
people have worked and said is not done by them. It's become a superficial thing. You
will not be happy unless and until you find your Spirit. How can you organize religion?
How can you organize God? Then you think you belong to a church, you belong to a, what
you call that, a sect or what is it called, another thing, something. Denomination. All
these denominations brand us. What's the thing for me? All of them are just the same,
still groping in the dark. How many are seeking reality? It's not that Christianity has failed,
it is the church that has failed. Christ can never fail, nor can Guru Nanaka, nor can
Mohammed Sahab. What fails is our understanding of them. Let us be the Spirit and then we'll
understand them. They are all one, hand in hand, no difference at all. They are all one,
believe Me. You don't have to give up anything, you have to just see to the essence of it.
Supposing a leaf is sick, you cannot treat it at the leaf end, you have to go to the
roots and when you go to the roots you find you have not given up any leaf. You are at
the roots and you are at the leaf also everywhere you exist. There are so many seekers lost
in this kind of a denomination, so many of them. Thank God my parents were realized souls,
thank God, because I found Protestants with different type of fanatics, you see, very
sophisticated. They would never find out that they are fanatics, so sophisticated, you know.
If you make anything very sophisticated you can't find it out. We can call everybody
else a fanatic but a Protestant you can never call because they are a mental people. They
have made it very sophisticated. So if you become so very sophisticated that you cannot
see yourself and you cannot make it out that it's I who is following some sort of a fanaticism,
an ideology, a mental projection, how can you get out of it? From every religion people
will think, oh Baba, this is fanaticism, this is too much. But for this I may be the most
I may be the first and I hope I'm not the last. Martin Luther himself was a realized
soul no doubt, but at that time, in that short time, with all kinds of oppressions and pressures,
how far could he go? And then there's already an attack built in with Paul and then with
Augustine. What can he do? Any realized soul like Khalil Gibran could see it clearly.
So we have to know one thing, we have to love the truth. Truth is to be discovered through
your Spirit and love your truth and not untruth. Any denomination is untruth. What is the truth?
Is the essence of that. Everything is becoming a plastic and then we say why people are living
churches, why people are running up from Christian faith or from that faith. Nothing wrong with
Christ, I think. No, it's wrong with us that we have made all these plastic things
to cover His image. The greatest justice you can do to Christ is to get your realization.
He was crucified for that, He came for that and He waits for that. So please get your
realization first and then you will know what is Christ and how great He is. May God bless
you.
What else is there? Any other question? It's a good question because that problem faces
everyone of you. Let's see. There could be denominations like communist, capitalist,
east, feast, all sorts of things. There could be, any time. I don't know the latest. I
think lost counts after anti-culturists. There's only one denomination of God is
a realized soul, a yogi, one with God. That's the only one. There's no other denomination
where all of them combine, Christ, Mohammed, Lao Tse, Socrates, Krishna, Rama, Nanaka,
Kabira, all of them combine in that great family of divinity.
All right, so should we have realization? I mean most of you have had. Is there any
question you can ask? I'll be very happy.
[unclear]
What is wrong with the people who call themselves born again Christans.
No, this is the problem is you cannot call yourself. This is a very big problem. You
see when I went to America, I must tell you, when I started talking about it they said,
you must, what do you say that, make it a registration of my speeches, what is it called?
Oh, copyright.
I must have a copyright, you see. Of course I'm very bad at the human laws. So I said,
all right, now what is that for? He said, they will try to copy you. I said, let them
copy, it's very good, I mean I'll be very happy. So then you must have a copyright.
Now I said then, what will they do? They said, you see, they will use your words, your sentence
as a very good idea. But you know what they did? They started calling themselves born
again. Born again. You cannot call yourself anything. You see, it's a power, it's a state,
it's a situation in which you have to be. If you are just born again, you say yourself,
what is your power? Born again, the first power you get is that you become, your nerves
become, your brain becomes collectively conscious in your awareness. That's the minimum that
should happen to you. It's not certificate, it's another, oh I, that is the latest than
the anti-culture is, then they might be the latest, is another denomination. Is no reality
then. You don't know one of the, one of the, they attacked Me in Switzerland and the lady
born again was wearing all kinds of glittery things and she was bringing a Bible to hit
Me, you know, and I couldn't bear the whole joke and I started laughing and everybody
was very upset but I was just laughing. I said, what a nice thing, born again coming
up to hit Me. What wrong am I doing to you? But you see, the thing is the organized religion
is such a possession, is such a security for people that they say, oh we are born again,
now certified, certified and they feel very secured with it I think, otherwise I can't
understand why should you accept such a title, you are born again, unless and until you have
the power, you must know what is the power one should have as a born again. They have
no knowledge, nothing, they just know Bible which also is so superficial. There is no
depth in their life, nothing, self-certification. There's no certificate in Sahaja Yoga. If
you are born again you will know yourself and then you have to become. It's a becoming
that is important, that's a fact. Be careful about born again Christians, oh we have had
enough of them. They felt quite challenged about Sahaja Yoga because everywhere we went
they attacked us, everywhere they tried to attack us but when we went to Australia the
Australians said, now you have done enough of yours, you have got anything from you,
better they go away. So then they went away. But they are so self deceived also, they live
with self deception, they know they haven't got anything. What have you got? All right,
now Gregoire has said, I'm this, I'm that, all right, don't believe in Him, you must get
something out of Me.
Another question?
[question about the difference between self-realisation and God's relisation]
Is that a Sahaja Yogi?
Just now let us deal with self-realization.
That's why Buddha wanted not to speak a word about God, he never wanted to take the name
of God also. He said, first self, he said, don't talk of God, dangerous situation.
But in a Sahaja Yoga this thing I'll tell you, not here because people won't understand
when I tell them about chakras, better is to keep this for future, all right? Look at
the Sahaja Yogis, now they want to have God's realization, that's good.
[unclear question]
What is the purpose of our sould. inthe material form?
Oh, it's a long story. Human beings created the purpose, in a way like a diamond lost
in the mire. We can say Adam and Eve, it started. There would have been no need to
go through all this, but human beings wanted to know everything. They wanted to know the
sting of a scorpion, they wanted to know the bite of a snake and then they wanted to come
to God. All right, you have your own way, you have freedom. That's freedom nobody can
take away, that's given to you, do what you like. So instead of eating your food directly
like this, as I say, they started eating. What can you do? That's the human doing, not
of God. It could have been very short circuited but it was so, all right. But that doesn't
mean that your body is not required. Everything is required very much because the process
is such. Supposing if you have a chance of making a fruit, a seed into a fruit, just
in the laboratory, put the seed and it becomes the fruit. All right, then you don't have
the whole process. But if the process is this way, better have it. Next, next time one can
try that. But let's finish the process now. We're coming to the end of it. There's a
trouble now we can't go back, can we? We are, I mean, trying to. We cannot. All right.
Is there any other question from Sahaja Yogis, as we could? But don't ask such questions
that I can't answer here. Please. Yes, please, again.
[unclear question]
Is it wrong to assume that the sould in this life if the mind in the next life?
I didn't follow this. Mind in this life or next life? Oh, I understand. Now I've understood.
No, no, no, no, no, no. You see, soul is different from spirit. Spirit is the light of the soul,
all right? Let's differentiate it. And then the soul is, all the five elements that are
within us, they form the soul. And the light of the soul is the spirit, all right? No,
no, no. But it doesn't transform from one to another. There's no transformation between
this to that, all right? So today's mind becomes a spirit. Next life, as you are saying, how?
Because today's mind realizes that mind is not sufficient. So it ascends to the spirit
root, to the self root, all right? Through the mind it acquires the understanding, the
logic that you have to ascend. But it doesn't come out of your mind. It comes out of the
mind of God Almighty, the Spirit, which is untarnishable, unchangeable. But by following
your mind you realize that mind is not the last one. Or same with emotions. So many people
who have failed in their emotional life, in a way, are specially blessed because they
give up that kind of a madness and achieve Spirit. But it's not the same. It's very
detached. It's not attached to any elements. Spirit is detached from all emotions. It can
see everything but is detached. I followed your question, all right, isn't it? You
understood it? You got your answer, all right? That's it, I'm happy. It's a good question
but it was rather abridged form of a question but I managed it somehow. Now I'm happy
because sometimes, you know, you people are so alert that you ask very nice questions
but I'm not so intelligent, I must confess, as you people are because I don't use My
mind at all. But you can reach the point very easily if you have your Spirit intact
because it's light. Intelligence, if it is pure intelligence, what you call, that's
the intelligence of the Spirit. You just reach the point, exactly. But the intelligence
that we understand is very different, you see. It plays with the words, it baffles you,
it's brilliant, your eyes can get completely shut with that. But it's not pure intelligence.
Pure intelligence just gives you the absolute essence of everything. That's the intelligence
of the Spirit, not of the mind.
Any other question please?
Hugo? Is he there? Any German question? The way, questions also
of denominations, aren't they? Let us be in a very pleasant mood. I'm trying to bring
you to a pleasant mood. Please be in a pleasant mood. Now, is there any question?
[Hindi]
Yes, madam?
[unclear question]
How did I know? There's a German lurking
somewhere. Now explain, what does she say?
Why we are on this Earth?
Because God wanted you to be here?
There must be another reason.
Of course, the reason is, is the reflection of God's
will, that He wanted us to be here. It's not according to our reasoning that God moves.
He has His own reasons, that He wanted to have something, so He has it. He wants
to have His children. Why do you have a child? Because you want to have, you want to enjoy
and cherish. That's what God wanted, to enjoy and cherish the love of His children, as the
child loves you. You see, the answer is here.
See, he is a realized soul and he is clearing her chakras. So My intelligence is with him,
collect. He's clearly clearing your this chakra and he understands. Was he the
realized soul?
You're asking for their Self-realization.
They are asking for their self-realisation.
That's great, that's your right. That's very, very great. All right, let's have it.
But all the twenty who are here, I have to make a humble request that please respect
your realization, please. Sometimes I weep with frustration and I request you to understand
your value and worth in the light of the Spirit. Thank you.
Could you please take out your shoes and sit with your two feet on the ground without crossing
the legs and be comfortable, don't have anything which make you feel tight and put your two
hands in the direction of Shri Mataji with the palms upwards. Thank you.
But the new people should come forward and the Sahaja Yogis must give them room because
you see we have to look after them.
So please all the people who are here for the first time, would you please?
Come in the forward seat.
Just come on the forward seat and every Sahaja Yogi were on the forward seat, please the
first seat. Please move backwards. And we are speaking about the seats not on the ground.
So all the new people please sit on the first row of seats.
That's great. She's going to start a center in Wimbledon. Let's see. Hope for the best.
Keep your fingers crossed. Such vibrations.
It's better to be there because they'll go into cramps.
If this is not enough also on the second row, please Sahaja Yogis, can you leave the second
row free?
Such vibrations, boy, you don't know the idea of Wimbledon.
Tremendous vibrations. Too much vibrations. Yes, good.
Sahaja Yogis should move from the second row and let people who are new should sit there.
Please move from the second and the first row also, I mean.
Please can you just, as I said, put your two feet on the ground straight without crossing
the legs and put your two hands with the palm upwards in the direction of Shri Mataji.
If you are sitting on the ground there's nothing to worry about the feet being on the
ground. Then you are on the ground but those who are sitting on the chair, please put both
your feet like this on the Mother Earth because she sucks in the problems you have and put
both the hands like this towards Me.
Now you have to close your eyes, just close your eyes.
You don't open your eyes till I tell you to open your eyes. So you just keep your eyes
shut.
Now left hand is symbolic of our desire, desire power. So we are putting our desire, left
hand, asking for our Self-realization. So keep it all the time, left hand towards Me.
Right hand is the power of action, Kriya shakti. So you have to use the right hand for that
and so you have to put your right hand onto different centers which I will explain to
you very, in a very simple way and you'll be able to understand that you have to put
your hand on these centers, helping your Kundalini to rise.
Now we are working out only on the left hand side of our centers with our right hand. So
the left hand is towards Me and the right hand goes onto different centers that we have,
as simple as that. The first one is the one what we call is the seat of the Spirit which
is the heart, which is on the left hand side. So please put your left hand towards Me all
the time and the right hand on the heart. Now just on the heart. Now at this place you
have to ask Me a very fundamental question, Mother, if you call Me Shri Mataji, Her Mother
is the same, Mother, am I the Spirit? Is a fundamental question, just ask Me. Mother,
am I the Spirit? Ask this question three times, Mother, am I the Spirit?
So one has to know that if you become the Spirit you become your own guide, you become
your own guru. This is all created by the great prophets and great gurus within you,
the possibility. So now after this you take down your right hand onto your stomach on
the left hand side. This is the center of mastery, mastery of the Divine power, the
technique, how to use it. So here you have to ask another question, relevant with the
first one, that if I am the Spirit, am I my own master? Ask a question now three times,
Mother, am I my own master? Put your left hand towards Me and right hand on the left
hand side of your stomach in the upper part. In the upper part of your stomach on the left
hand side, please put your right hand and press it. And here you ask Me a question three
times, Mother, am I my own master? Am I my own guide? Am I my own guru? This is the blessings
of the real sadhgurus. Three times.
Now please take your hand in the lower part of your abdomen on the left hand side. Now
press it hard. This is the center that works out. First one was the master. This is the
center that works out, the Divine technique of the true knowledge, of the pure knowledge.
So now ask a question. In a way it's not a question but a request, because unless and
until you ask for it, I cannot do it, I cannot cross your freedom. So here you say, Mother,
please may I have the pure knowledge? Mother, may I have the pure knowledge? Say it three
times. Mother, may I have the pure knowledge? Six times, because this center has got six
petals. Now this you are asking to initiate the Kundalini, to awaken the Kundalini. When
you ask for it, because it's such an absolute question, the Kundalini awakens. You have
to request Her.
Now, again raise your hand to the upper portion or upper area of the stomach, on the left
hand side, at the center of the mastery. Here you press it hard and say with full confidence
for the Kundalini to rise, to open the center with full assertion, Mother, I am my own master.
Mother, I am my own master. You have to say this ten times, because there are ten masters
within us, who have built up our ten centers, subplexuses of these solar plexus. So we have
to say ten times, with full assertion, Mother, I am my own master.
Now, raise your right hand on to the heart.
Here again, with full confidence within yourself, forgetting all your past, forgetting all your
problems, with full confidence and assertion, you have to say, Mother, I am the Spirit.
You have to say it twelve times, Mother, I am the Spirit. You are the Spirit, no doubt
about it.
Believe in yourself, have faith in yourself. Know that you are the Spirit and nothing else.
Now, raise your right hand in the corner of your head.
If you have left shoulder and your neck from the front, this is the most difficult center
that we have in the West, because people believe in something called the guilt, and all the
time they feel guilty for nothing at all. So put it in the corner of the neck and the
shoulder, press it hard on the backbone, hard. This is the worst center we have in the West,
that we feel guilty for nothing at all. What is the feeling guilty? You are the Spirit.
How can Spirit make mistakes? And God is the ocean of love and compassion, but above all
He's the ocean of forgiveness. What guilt can you have? What mistakes can you commit
that His power of forgiveness cannot forgive? You are not to be guilty. Forget My lecture,
forget everything, you are the pure, immaculate Spirit. You are sat-chit-ananda. You are the source
of all that is joy.
Better. You have to say this sixteen times, Mother, I am not guilty. Sixteen times, press
it hard and say it sixteen times.
So in the beginning it was terrible.
Now take this hand and put it across your forehead, please. Stretch your left hand towards
Me. At this point, not how many times, but from your heart you have to say, Mother, I
forgive everyone. Something that's very difficult to forgive, it's a myth, because
whether you forgive or not forgive you don't do anything about it. But if you don't forgive
then you play into the wrong hands. So please say, Mother, I forgive. That's the greatest
weapon you have. Mother, I forgive.
Everyone, first of all yourself. Now on the back of your head, hold it tight. Now for
your own consolation you can say that, O God Almighty, or O my Kundalini the Mother,
if I have done anything wrong in Your glory, in Your name, please forgive me. Not to feel
guilty at all, please don't feel guilty, but just say it out, don't count all your
so-called sins, just forget it, forget it, forget it.
Now, raise your hand on top of your head, on the fontanel bone area, stretch your palm
and press it hard in a clockwise manner. Take your right hand on top of your head,
on the fontanel bone area, which was a soft bone in your childhood, press it hard and
here in a clockwise manner when you move it you have to say something which I cannot do
it without it because you are free. So you have to say, Mother, I want my realization,
I cannot force on you. So to say, I want my realization, Mother, please give me my self-realization.
Just say that, press it hard, press it hard, stretch your palm on top of fontanel bone
area. Now, seven times.
[Shri Mataji blows into the microphone]
Now bring down your right hand, please.
The most valuable moment of your life and the most precious, important happening. Now,
please place your right hand towards Me and left hand on top of your head, bending the
head about, say, three, four inches and move the hand and see if there's any cool breeze
coming out of your own head, please.
It was really nice to have this seminar organized here at such a short notice with no proper
planning or anything and you got such a nice place also. Spontaneously the whole thing
has worked out and everything is managed. But today you saw the new people who came
were an example of the dearth of seeking in this country, or maybe. There is some sort
of lacking on the part of English Sahaja Yogis also. The way that, because I'm here, people
take things for granted. Or maybe that a few like Gavin and others are very anxious, trying
to do their level best to do this. And I think on two points might be we are failing.
One point is that we all must know what have we done for Sahaja Yoga. Some people take
two or three posters and post them, then they think they have done everything. No.
You have to do much more than anywhere else because you are placed in this important thing
called the heart. Everybody has had an advantage of Sahaja Yoga, has been helped a lot. We
have to think what have we done for Sahaja Yoga. It has done so much for us, what have
we done for Sahaja Yoga. That's very important. So then there should be, I think I was expressing
that anxiety which the people who are your leaders and those who are worried about Sahaja
Yoga in England. And My lecture, the whole lecture has that tremendous concern. And then
we have to think what have we done. We have houses, we have places, we have ashrams, we
have families, we have wives, we have everything. And the Sahaja Yoga still if it is by the
way then this is the result. You get twenty nonsensical, arrogant people, don't get
realization, some of them get it and get out. So I think this is on one side is this that
what have we done for Sahaja Yoga. There should be a, in other countries I'm not there. So
for them when I go there, even for four, five days, the whole place is filled with My, the
whole place is filled with My posters, the whole place. It has to be done, every time
has been. The whole of London should have been today filled with My posters. I mean
anybody who goes to say Switzerland or to Rome or to Paris, they tell Me, Indians, that
we saw your posters all over the place. But never has happened in London. Now I hope this
is not the last program, public program in England. But still one has to work very hard.
All of you should think what you can do because everybody has taken things in their own style
like the leaders are working hard, they are all trying to do things and arrange things,
all that. But what have you done is the point. Now some people have had failures, say for
example some people had failures with the officials and for the government or with the
TV, doesn't matter. We know we have failed there. But advertising, postering, talking
about it, going around it, all that can be done. This one part is very good in this respect
is that outside London things are working out better. But how many of you have been
doing that? Very few. The same party goes here, same party has to do it all the time.
Now, now this is one side of the picture is that, that the advertising and all that
has to be done more intensely, extensively. And everybody must offer their full support
and services. On the seminar side you are all very good, everything is done well, I
agree. So many things are, because we have to do so many things together. But still you
being the heart you have to be like that, what can you do? That's one part of it.
The second part of it I feel is, like we had in Hampstead about three hundred people and
they came and what I've learnt is that when they came to the program nobody was sort of
open hearted, sort of talked to them in that way as they should have. Some of you did but
not all. Most of you are just sitting down. Like if they come to My house they'll just
sit down, hands like this. You cannot, you cannot just do that, it's not done. Come
to My house, sit down like this. Always they will come and sit down and put hands like
this. You can't do like that. That shows you are very insular, very selfish and also
in a way arrogant. You cannot take My vibrations without My permission, can you?
So this is suggestive of one thing, that what we do is to take things for granted and we,
when we talk to others also it takes time for an Englishman to get up. That's the
thing is. Now the quality of this is this, that in English do not want to interfere with
anyone, they want to leave them alone. It's not the bad thing. They want that why should
we interfere, aggress, that's the point is. But that's not the point now, we have
to aggress. This is the thing I'm bringing you to. That means you don't mean that.
But what you mean is that not to interfere. See they don't discuss religion in England,
no, you are not supposed to say these things. You are not to discuss whether you are a miss
or a missus. You are not to say whether you have children or not. If you ask somebody
a question, you have you got children, that means the most offensive thing. You are not
to discuss anybody's family. There are so many don'ts in this country so that we do
not also sort of get up worried that maybe this may be taken as an interference. But
just the opposite are Americans. They will go up to the great grandfather and up to the
whole progeny to find out. So interference should be forgotten, there should be no fear
about them. But open your heart and talk to them openly with an open heart. But people
receive back. Once they receive back, others also somehow or other get frightened because
they think you are just like them. You have to be different to attract them.
So amongst English Sahaja Yogis there are some who are very anxious, very much worried,
they are being so much, working it out. Some of them are really indifferent and the middle
part is those who are still trying to see how far to go, how far not to go, you have
to be aggressive about it. I mean as if now I feel the English have aggressed so much
that now they are so fed up with aggressiveness. That's the thing I want you to have today,
to be aggress. Aggressiveness is the only way you can reach these people, otherwise
they won't understand. And you have to talk to them on their faces. I have seen how people
talk. If you talk to them like that they are all right. Unless and until you work out
that way, when the people come, you talk to them in an aggressively loving manner. Do
you understand that? Exuberance, just open out your heart. How come long, come long,
where are you going, sit down, what do you want, you want. One minute Englishman will
look like this, you see. Second minute, you must understand your own character that exists
in those people also. If the language starts, I'm afraid. So aggressively compassionate,
aggressively loving, aggressively open hearted. Non-interference and all those ideas are out
of date now, finished. Now openness, no arrogance, no anger, but openness. Aggressive innocence
people, like children are. Children are so aggressively innocent that you like it. I
mean if they catch hold of you, they'll all come and jump on your body and sleep on
top of you, kissing you all over. That's how. You have to be aggressively loving and
aggressively good. What you want, you want something to eat, you want this, that, that.
They'll be surprised how these English people have become like this. So on these two things
we fail and this anguish and this anxiety that I have is one of the expressions of the
modern times, you must know, is of the modern times, you see. Because modern times are so
funny that if you click it, you click it and if you don't click it, missed. It's so
important, so precarious is the word, so precarious. At this time if you don't click it, it's finished.
So I find everyone is capable of doing lots of things for Sahaja Yoga. But
what have we done for Sahaja Yoga? Nice in the seminar to come and enjoy, it's good idea,
I enjoy Sahaja Yogis, Mother is collecting them. One of the examples is that from the
other countries people come. They are sick, they have problems, this, that. Immediately
telephone will ring Me up saying, Mother somebody has come with ten bhoots and fifteen babhoots.
So what? When should that person see you? I said, the person or the bhoots? And the bhoots
only come, the person is missing. At least you can reduce some numbers and then send
such a person. Now I've started using the hearth of My house instead of the candle.
Now will you please look after the bhoots of the people when they come? And among you
are, there are many like that. Your children are caught up, some of the wives are caught
up, some of the husbands are caught up, but nobody pays attention, carrying on with them,
sometimes even supporting. And just I see them, even staying in ashrams I must say,
some of them are really bhootish and troublesome. And you think that you have to tolerate, there's
no crucifixion needed anymore. If somebody has a bhoot, better tell that person you are
catching. I mean I don't want to tell, but you know what happens to Me? My hands and
My feet they all go crazy, and there's a bhootish person around, so I just run away.
In the same way it should happen to you and you should try to correct that person, but
nobody bothers. You see because you think correction will be too much, oh maybe he might
feel hurt and he'll run away. Let him run away, take two running jumps and go to hell.
But the whole thing should be a concern and anxiety and loving way, then you will attract
that person. I mean today I was really so full of vibrations, nothing would be sucked
in. These horrible twenty people or so ever they were, they were stopping you also from
sucking Me. I mean they were more powerful than you are in your suction I think. So now
there's something wrong with us. What is that wrong is, what have we done for Sahaja
Yoga, first question. Second is what am I doing about myself, where am I? Nice to ask
a question, what's the difference between a God realized and a Self realized? God realized
never catches, just knows. Now why do I feel horrible? Only with Sahaja Yogis, not with
non-Sahaja Yogis. Even a Narakasura comes before Me, I can kill him. But Sahaja Yogis
are inside My body, what am I to do? They are part and parcel of Me, they are not foreigners.
So when they get sick I get sick Myself, because they are inside Myself. No deity has done
that, no incarnation has done that job. Nobody has injected Sahaja Yogis inside their body,
has anyone done that way? You are all inside My body, part and parcel. When something goes
wrong with you, goes wrong with Me inside naturally, if I take a, it's indiscriminate
you can say, but if I were not indiscriminate, how many would have gone inside My body? That's
how I can cleanse you. I can look after you, I can know about your work out things very
well. Something happens to someone in Australia, I can work it out here because he's in My
body. That's why I get sick. Or you can say I get caught up, because I've got bhoots
within Me. So you must keep out your bhoots. This is the third point, very important. How
can I have bhoots in Me? How can I have left side or right side or anything? I am in the
body of Mother, who is the Adi Shakti. What a privilege, what a honor. So now I can't
have any bhoots within Myself. It has to be something very pure. So try to purify yourself,
keep yourself pure. What I'm saying now is for English, is for all of you. English
being always the leaders for starting something good, I have to talk to them more. They have
done it because they were the ones who fought the war, won it, and that's how we started
under tides. But now the instruments that we are going to use have to be that powerful.
If Europeans among them say Brussels people come up very well, then I'll shift My attention.
We can shift heart these days. Transplant is possible. Have you heard of heart from
right moves to the left or left to the right? God can do it. There are people born with
the heart on the right hand side also. So to be very precise, I think that this seminar
should be used for also having an inner inside, seeing what have we done for Sahaja Yoga.
That will help. Secondly, very important is, are we open hearted? For example, we can
say like this, that supposing I'm in the house and the bell rings up. If there's an American,
he'll say, I'll get it, will be the first to run. And English would be looking this
side, that side. Because a kind of a lethargy, that is certainly. Because that's the idea
of the negative to freeze the heart. And that freezing is to be avoided. I'll get it,
I'll do it, I'll work it out. I have to do it. That must be told. All the English
Sahaja Yogis must know that they have to be the most active people. Do you know, even
when we sleep and the heart is beating all the time till we exist. So I have to tell
you that you bear a very big responsibility to Sahaja Yoga. That's why I've been here,
I've been with you and that doesn't mean you should take things for granted. You can
do a lot, you have to circulate. Maybe English Sahaja Yogis will have to travel a lot. But
first of all, first and foremost, open your heart. Talk openly and sweetly. You have children,
learn from them how they talk, how sweetly they move. Really open your heart. Unless
and until you open your heart, how can you do anything for anybody else? And that's
what one has to achieve. I'm sure next program I can see myself all over London. All right?
Now don't feel guilty, I'm getting terrible pain. Don't feel guilty. Face it. Yes, it's
true. Don't feel guilty about it. For heaven's sake don't feel guilty because I'm now
getting a terrible pain again. Food has arrived, all right?
So we can have some music, all right? Then I'll go because tomorrow I have to come
for your puja. So if you don't mind, tomorrow about eleven o'clock we'll start the puja.
But those who have to cancel their thing, I hope you manage that tomorrow. I bless you
with that. May God bless you.
We can start at ten o'clock. We can start puja at ten. I mean for Me it's all right,
I can even start at nine. But what about you people? I can start at six. Or just now.
No, but what about others? No, it's better to have it before me. No, it's, you see,
actually it's, there is, I don't know what sort of puja it is going to be because, see,
it's a Vishnu maya, this thing, you see. So we can have a short puja of Vishnu maya,
it's all right. It has to be done in the night, no doubt, in the sense that, but doesn't
matter, makes no difference. We can call it a global puja, some sort of a general
puja we can call it, I don't know. Vishnu maya is something so powerful. All right,
so let's have some music and then I'll go back. Just tell her not to wait for My
food at home. This girl, need time she should eat her food. So let's see now, what is
the contribution? Now you have seen the music that has come from Nasik. What a professional
music it was. Did you hear that? Now what have you to produce? Just look at that. It
was a real professional thing they have done. So we should try to find out something better,
all right? Now let's have some music. What do you think, Valerie, Me to Me, you think
so much?
All right, all right, all right. What is cooked in? This one and this one?
Plain, plain one I'll have and that I can have, all right? All right. I'll try to
manage something. Now let's have some music.
Now for India tour. You see, this may be there as I told you. I don't know this year
or maybe next year, maybe the last year, I can't say. The reason is once we have established
our ashrams in India, I don't think I'll be able to take all this, go round all the
villages and all that. Once we have ashrams they will all come down to see us there. In
India for them it's a pilgrimage and they go out of the way to do it. So when you people
are coming there, after once we have established our ashram, there won't be any of these
India tours much, which you have enjoyed very well. Maybe this might be the last year
or next year, I don't know, depends on as soon as we establish the ashram.
Now, I see that people do not understand the value of Indian tour also. It does lot of good
to you because it's a country which is heavenly, I should say, as far as vibrations
are concerned. Sometimes I feel we are living in hell here because I see the TV on horrible
things and I mean it's really terrible. There are so many Indians who have come here
and they say that they lose their vibrations, not only here, America anyway. So the Indian
tour, though apart from anything else, itself is visiting India, is still a clearer country,
especially Maharashtra is.
Now, this time to make it convenient, we have made it for three weeks. So you are there
only for three weeks, two weeks, around, at one week, around the sea shore. Now actually
we'll not have many public programs, but that is something every year, if you cannot
do it, at least alternate years should have been done. I find that, that people don't
understand the importance of Indian tour. Ninety-nine percent people who have been to
India settle down in Sahaja Yoga. There must be something about it. So those who are going
to, now we have made it the minimum possible. Though everybody warned us, Warren said that
it's going to be very expensive, it is ten times more, everything is there, whatever
minimum we have got. Luckily also Air India, because it had so many accidents, it has gone
very cheap. And you people should know that if you have to go, pay the money in time.
You are still waiting for last minute. I'm going to be here for a month, I know that,
but that doesn't mean that you should take so much time. It's like a pilgrimage.
And everybody should try, everybody should try. I cannot manage many, but quite a lot
we can manage now, because we have made two tours now. In case you cannot manage the first
tour, you come for the second tour. But it's not so difficult. But if you see, I have
now noticed people quite closely that people waste their money along. Just the other way
round Indians are, you know, they keep all the money just for My tour there. Keep all
their holidays, all their money for the tour, though they do not gain so much as you people
gain, because it's a new world you go to. So those who are coming should decide, but
those who are not coming also must think it over. It's not difficult. It's better,
I hope this is not the last time, but maybe, I can't say. Because once we have an ashram
then why need not go all over the Indians will all come from all over India they'll
come. People are already coming from Madras, even if I have a small little room they come
down. Because we have no place to make them stay, that's why. Otherwise you will be
surprised they will be all there. You won't be able to see yourself, there will be so
many. Before that starts you must understand that you have to go to India, somehow or other,
at least once. Next year or this year you have to. But I can't even promise next year,
I really tell you. I must say that ninety percent next year you'll have the program
again, because it's becoming very difficult, very difficult money wise also and otherwise
it's becoming sun-wielding. So I would request you to think it over and those who want to
come should give your names. Even if you have not paid the money you can do it because I
am here for this month. So those who have not yet given your names also can give your
names to come in and we'll adjust it. But I cannot make it, I mean I wanted to make
it much cheaper for you, but it's not the food that is expensive, it's the travelling,
but now travelling has become much cheaper. But everything is by the way, that's the
trouble is, by the way. You see, if you want to save money and people will save money to
buy Rolls Royce, which cost I don't know how much, for that horrible fellow in one
year and such a wish can't have money to go to India. I believe it. At least once everybody
should go watch it, because it helps, helps them such a lot. I myself never knew that
it would help so much, but I never believe it does help. So those who have not yet given
money also can give their names to come in or to their leaders.
We'll be saving, staying for seven days on the seashore and beautiful, one of the best
in the whole world. Vaisniv Ganesh has there and the water of the sea comes out of his
nabhi and only his lower body you can see. The head is the mountain itself. You can see
the lights coming out of it, only the Sahaja Yogis can see. I don't know about next year
also, but it should not be a thing that is a sort of a by the way, that's important.
So let us see what's happening, because Australians are quite a lot coming and we
have to see about others also. All right? May God bless you.
Now look at the music they have produced, the quality. Try to compete with them.
Just think of it. He got his realization only last year. Last year this fellow got
his realization in one year. We have made copies of that music for you people to be
given you as presents only to the leaders.
Everybody, please, because, and I would request all the people who came here for the first time to kindly now proceed because the program is finished.
And if they so wish, they may leave the name and addresses in such way that we can contact them to tell them when there is a program.
And there are meetings every Friday, and John was here, we'll talk to you outside. Please, John, could you go outside? So I would request all the new people now to leave this hall and all the sahaja yogis please come back in.
Marilyn, everybody come back in.
So again, people who are here for the first time are kindly requested to now leave the hall.
Please sahaja yogi, can you just sit quietly in meditation?
John, where is John?